CodePipeline: Add documentation (#1686)
localstack/docs: content/en/user-guide/aws/codepipeline/index.md

---
title: CodePipeline
linkTitle: CodePipeline
description: >
  Get started with CodePipeline on LocalStack
tags: ["Pro image"]
---

## Introduction

CodePipeline is a continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) service offered by AWS.
CodePipeline can be used to create automated pipelines that handle the build, test and deployment of software.

> LocalStack comes with a bespoke execution engine that can be used to create, manage and execute pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LocalStack comes with a bespoke execution engine that can be used to create, manage, and execute pipelines.
```

> It supports a variety of actions that integrate with S3, CodeBuild, CodeConnections and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It supports a variety of actions that integrate with S3, CodeBuild, CodeConnections, and more.
```

                        }
                    ],
                    "inputArtifacts": []
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "stage2",
            "actions": [
                {
                    "name": "action1",
                    "actionTypeId": {
                        "category": "Deploy",
                        "owner": "AWS",
                        "provider": "S3",
                        "version": "1"
                    },
                    "runOrder": 1,
                    "configuration": {
                        "BucketName": "target-bucket",
                        "Extract": "false",
                        "ObjectKey": "output-file"
                    },
                    "inputArtifacts": [
                        {
                            "name": "intermediate-file"
                        }
                    ],
                    "outputArtifacts": []
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

Create the pipeline using the following command:

{{< command >}}
$ awslocal codepipeline create-pipeline --pipeline file://./declaration.json
{{< /command >}}

### Verify pipeline execution

> A 'pipeline execution' is an instance of a pipeline in running or finished state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A 'pipeline execution' is an instance of a pipeline in a running or finished state.
```

> The [CreatePipeline](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_CreatePipeline.html) operation we ran earlier started a pipeline execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`CreatePipeline`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_CreatePipeline.html) operation we ran earlier started a pipeline execution.
```

<disable-copy>
{
    "pipelineExecutionSummaries": [
        {
            "pipelineExecutionId": "37e8eb2e-0ed9-447a-a016-8dbbd796bfe7",
            "status": "Succeeded",
            "startTime": 1745486647.138571,
            "lastUpdateTime": 1745486648.290341,
            "trigger": {
                "triggerType": "CreatePipeline"
            },
            "executionMode": "SUPERSEDED"
        }
    ]
}
</disable-copy>
{{< /command >}}

Note the `trigger.triggerType` field specifies what initiated the pipeline execution.
Currently in LocalStack, only two triggers are implemented: `CreatePipeline` and `StartPipelineExecution`.

The above pipeline execution was successful.
This means that we can retrieve the `output-file` object from the `target-bucket` S3 bucket.

{{< command >}}
$ awslocal s3 cp s3://target-bucket/output-file output-file
<disable-copy>
download: s3://target-bucket/output-file to ./output-file
</disable-copy>
{{< /command >}}

To verify that it is the same file as the original input:

{{< command >}}
$ cat output-file
<disable-copy>
Hello LocalStack!
</disable-copy>
{{< /command >}}

### Examine action executions

> Using the [ListActionExecutions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_ListPipelineExecutions.html), detailed information about each action execution such as inputs and outputs can be retrieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the [`ListActionExecutions`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_ListPipelineExecutions.html), detailed information about each action execution such as inputs and outputs can be retrieved.
```

                },
                "region": "eu-central-1",
                "inputArtifacts": [
                    {
                        "name": "intermediate-file",
                        "s3location": {
                            "bucket": "artifact-store-bucket",
                            "key": "pipeline/intermediate-file/01410aa4.zip"
                        }
                    }
                ]
            },
            "output": {
                "outputArtifacts": [],
                "executionResult": {
                    "externalExecutionId": "bcff0781",
                    "externalExecutionSummary": "Deployment Succeeded"
                },
                "outputVariables": {}
            }
        },
        {
            "pipelineExecutionId": "37e8eb2e-0ed9-447a-a016-8dbbd796bfe7",
            "actionExecutionId": "ae99095a-1d43-46ee-8a48-c72b6d60021e",
            "pipelineVersion": 1,
            "stageName": "stage1",
            "actionName": "action1",
            ...
</disable-copy>
{{< /command >}}

{{< callout >}}
LocalStack does not use the same logic to generate external execution IDs as AWS so there may be minor discrepancies.

> Same is true for status and error messages produced by actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same is true for status and error messages produced by actions.
```

{{< /callout >}}

## Pipelines

The operations [CreatePipeline](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_CreatePipeline.html), [GetPipeline](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_GetPipeline.html), [UpdatePipeline](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_UpdatePipeline.html), [ListPipelines](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_ListPipelines.html), [DeletePipeline](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_DeletePipeline.html) are used to manage pipeline declarations.

LocalStack supports emulation for V1 pipelines.
V2 pipelines are only created as mocks.

{{< callout "tip" >}}
Emulation for V2 pipelines is not supported.
Make sure that the pipeline type is explicitly set in the declaration.
{{< /callout >}}

> Pipeline executions can be managed with [StartPipelineExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_StartPipelineExecution.html), [GetPipelineExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_GetPipelineExecution.html), [ListPipelineExecutions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_ListPipelineExecutions.html) and [StopPipelineExecutions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_StopPipelineExecution.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipeline executions can be managed with [`StartPipelineExecution`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_StartPipelineExecution.html), [`GetPipelineExecution`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_GetPipelineExecution.html), [`ListPipelineExecutions`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_ListPipelineExecutions.html) and [`StopPipelineExecutions`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_StopPipelineExecution.html).
```

> When stopping pipeline executions with StopPipelineExecution, the stop and abandon method is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When stopping pipeline executions with `StopPipelineExecution`, the stop and abandon method is not supported.
```

Setting the `abandon` flag will have no impact.

> This is because LocalStack uses threads as the underlying mechanism to simulate pipelines, and threads can not be cleanly preempted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because LocalStack uses threads as the underlying mechanism to simulate pipelines, and threads cannot be cleanly preempted.   
```

> Action executions can be inspected using the [ListActionExecutions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_ListPipelineExecutions.html) operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Action executions can be inspected using the [`ListActionExecutions`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/APIReference/API_ListPipelineExecutions.html) operation.
```
